**Quay.io** is the official, legitimate container registry owned and operated by Red Hat. It is completely safe. 



# Quay web Log In
Quay requires the generation and use of an encrypted password for CLI login.

### 1. Create Your Account / use existing RedHat account
Go to **quay.io** and click **Sign In**.
quay uses RedHat account for sign in
Potentially, could also use GitHub account?

### 2. Create the Public Repository
1. Once logged in, click the **+ Create New Repository** button in the top right corner.
2. In the **Repository Name** field, enter your project name (e.g., `fedora_init`).
3. Under **Repository Visibility**, select **Public**. This is the crucial step to ensure you aren't charged for the service.
4. Under **Initialization**, select **Empty repository**.
5. Click **Create Public Repository**.


# CLI Log In
Quay requires the generation and use of an encrypted password for CLI login.

### 3. Generate Your CLI Password
1. Log in to **quay.io** in your browser using your Red Hat account.
2. Click your username in the top right corner of the dashboard.
3. Select **Account Settings** from the dropdown menu.
4. Select "CLI Password" (or something to that effect)
    - this will ask you to enter a new password of your choosing for the account
5. After setting the new passoword for the account, look on the same account page for **Generate Encrypted Password** link (usually highlighted in blue) and click it.
6. quay.io will generate a long encrypted password to copy/paste elsewhere.
    - look on the left toolbar of this window for "podman login", which provides a copy/paste text with the podman login command to use, including the account name and the new encrypted password.
Copy/paste the podman login command into the terminal to login.

```bash
podman login -u='<RedHatusername>' -p='...' quay.io
```
* `Login Succeeded!`

or

```bash
podman login quay.io
```
* **Username:** `m0ranmcharles`
* **Password:** *(Paste the encrypted password from Quay)*


### 4. Tag Your Local Image
You need to tag your local container image so the engine knows exactly where it belongs on the internet. The format is always `quay.io/[username]/[repository]:[tag]`. 

Assuming you want to push your latest build, run:

```bash
podman tag fedora_init:latest quay.io/charles022/fedora_init:latest
```

### 5. Push the Image
Finally, upload the image to your new public repository:

```bash
podman push quay.io/charles022/fedora_init:latest
```

Once the push completes, you can refresh your Quay.io repository page, and you will see your image listed under the "Tags" tab, along with a free vulnerability scan report generated by Clair (Red Hat's security scanner).

